The President: Hi everybody.
One of the things that makes
America great is our passion
for innovation - that
spirit of discovery and
entrepreneurship that helps
us meet any challenge.
One of the greatest
challenges of our time is
climate change.
Over the last seven years,
we've made historic
investments in clean energy
that helped private sector
companies create tens of
thousands of good jobs.
And today, clean power from
the wind or the sun is
actually cheaper in many
communities than dirtier,
conventional power.
It's helped grow our economy
and cut our total carbon
pollution more than any
other country on earth.
That leadership helped bring
nearly 200 nations together
in Paris around the most
ambitious climate agreement
in history.
And in Paris, we also
launched one of the most
important partnerships ever
assembled to accelerate this
kind of clean energy
innovation around the world.
Investors and business
leaders including Bill
Gates, Meg Whitman, and
Mark Zuckerberg joined us,
pledging their own money
to help advance new
technologies to the market.
That's important because
we'll only meet this
challenge if the private
sector helps lead the way.
As I said in my State
of the Union address,
rather than
subsidize the past,
we should invest
in the future.
That's why the budget I
will send to Congress this
Tuesday will double funding
for clean energy research
and development by 2020.
This will include new
investments to help the
private sector create
more jobs faster,
lower the cost of
clean energy faster,
and help clean, renewable
power outcompete dirty fuels
in every state.
And while Republicans
in Congress are still
considering their position
on climate change,
many of them realize
that clean energy is an
incredible source of
good-paying jobs
for their constituents.
That's why we were able to
boost clean energy research
and development in last
year's budget agreement.
And I hope they support my
plan to double that kind
of investment.
Because it's making a
difference across the country.
In Idaho, our Battery Test
Center is helping electric
cars run longer on
a single charge.
In Ohio, entrepreneurs are
pioneering new ways to
harness wind power
from the Great Lakes.
In Tennessee, researchers
are partnering with
utilities to boost storage
and solar power to create a
more resilient
electric grid.
The point is, all
across the country,
folks are putting their
differences aside to face
this challenge as one.
Washington should
do the same.
That's how we're going to
solve this challenge - together.
And that's how we're going
to give our kids and
grandkids the future they
deserve - one with a safe,
secure, and
prosperous planet.
Thanks everybody, and
have a great weekend.